---
layout: post
title: CBCTF19 - Should Have, Could Have
---

Last Saturday concludes the local CTF season for this year in Brunei. If you've seen the scoreboard, the team did badly in the finals. We're bummed about that but life must go on. This post attempts to summarize our thoughts into what went wrong for us. But before that, we would like to congratulate the podium winners, and a very good job to the other participants who have showed a step increase in their skill and knowledge. This just goes to show that the level of competition here has improved, and evidently time and efforts were spent by everyone in preparation for the competition. A side note, we never believed when they say they are doing this frolicly \**winks*\*. The future for CTF and consequentially the cybersecurity proficiency in Brunei is looking good. Hopefully next year onwards we will continue to see more participation and new faces - especially from the high schoolers.

Just a brief note at the level of challenges given by the organisers to us, based upon our experience in dabbling with other CTF, we would say that it is somewhere to the junior level (or maybe lower) of what high level CTF competition around the world looks like e.g. junior 35C3CTF. While the categories have maintained like the previous years i.e. exploitation (includes binary and reversing), forensics, packet analysis, web and crypto; there were some new sub-categories of challenges introduced like for example the inclusion of 64-bit binaries, PE files and an actual IoT hacking. Will we be seeing modern challenges being included such as browser and VM exploitation? We will have to see next year.

In mentioning the last paragraph, it shows what the organiser was expecting from us in their design of the challenges, which is to gauge our understanding on the basic vulnerabilities and exploitation for each of the categories, and some basic scripting exercises. We expected this. However, it is one thing to know the basic theories, and another to apply its exploitation, the practical bit. This is a hacking exercise afterall, not a paper exam one. Lack of practical experience has proved to be one of several other contributors to the failure. In retrospect, our poor performance can be attributed to - spending too much time on the higher points but failing to deliver, inability to cope with time pressure and then anxiety creeping in, late pivoting but failing to recover. We are still reeling at the should haves and could haves, however such is the reality of competing. We just have to pick ourselves up, learn from it, and ensure that the same mistake is not repeated next time.

So what's next? Without going into too much detail, there will be emphasis on getting the basics right. Tools familiarisation in terms of its features and usages, understanding basic vulnerabilities, defining our own methodologies and testing procedures to find bugs (which was always in the TODO list) and last but definitely not the least, improving our scripting ability. That's pretty much it really.

'Til next time, ta, ta.
